# FarMar - Find Your Market
## www.farmarfinder.com

## Project Description

Using JavaScript, jQuery, an open source API, HTML and CSS, I built an app that finds local farmers markets based on zip code and product preference!

My goal was to:
  - Make it easy for people to find local food sources near them
  - Display data like market names, locations, hours, and products
  - Support small farms and the local food movement through tech!

## Technologies Used

- Built with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery
- [USDA Farmers Market API](https://search.ams.usda.gov/farmersmarkets/v1/svcdesc.html)
- [Google Maps Embed API](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/embed/get-started?hl=en_US)
- Favicon generated by [Favicon](https://favicon.io/)
- API requests made using AJAX, with data returned in JSON format

## The Process

Initially, I experimented with the API to see what sort of data would be returned. The USDA API returns farmers markets either locally by zip code, or market details (such as products carried, address, etc.) searchable by a custom "market ID". My first hurdle was connecting the market ID returned from a zip code search, to the jQuery elements being created for each market name. Once I figured out how to assign each element a custom ID attribute, I was able to connect each market's details to it's name on a click function.

Getting the local market results to appear as a carousel with randomly generated stock images was my next step. This was pretty straightforward, having worked on something similar in class. My only misstep was when I included my "next" and "previous" arrows as part of the results cycle. That was solved by changing the first and las indexes of my carousel code!

On the final two days of this project, I incorporated embedded Google Maps with each market's location. I stored the address of the market returned by the USDA API, and interpolated it into a Google API request. My biggest issue with using the embed API was figuring out how to set up my Google Developer account so that my API key worked properly.

Finally, I wanted to add a feature that allowed users to once again sift through their local search results to find markets in their area that carried their favorite products. This was accomplished by adding a click listener on each list item (product), and looping through the local markets, while creating an array of each market's available products and checking to see if it included the html of the clicked list item.

Other little features I incorporated were a "clear" button to reset the local search (and empty the page), and a fixed "to the top" button, which allows users to easily return to the search bar.

## Further Goals and Improvements:

  - Overall, I could refactor my code quite a bit to be more concise. Right now the program is coded very much like a story, start to finish, with no callbacks -- it's all very literal, which I think is okay for this project - but that will definitely be a goal of mine moving forward!
  - I'd love to add more "fancy" CSS, like allowing users to flip the product-match result cards, and see the address of each market on the back side. I'd also do some research about how to make all transitions smooth and gradual when jQuery elements are added to the page.
  - Additional functionality might be using local storage to allow users to save their favorite market products.
